Leviticus.
Chapter 18.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, I am the Lord your God. 
Ye shall not do according to the devices of Egypt, in which ye dwelt: and according to the devices of the land of Chanaan, into which I bring you, ye shall not do; and ye shall not walk in their ordinances. 
Ye shall observe my judgments, and shall keep my ordinances, and shall walk in them: I am the Lord your God. 
So ye shall keep all my ordinances, and all my judgments, and do them; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am the Lord your God. 
No man shall draw nigh to any of his near kindred to uncover their nakedness; I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, for she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's wife; it is thy father's nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy sister by thy father or by thy mother, born at home or abroad, their nakedness thou shalt not uncover. 
The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or thy daughter's daughter, their nakedness thou shalt not uncover; because it is thy nakedness. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of the daughter of thy father's wife; she is thy sister by the same father: thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister, for she is near akin to thy father. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister, for she is near akin to thy mother. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, and thou shalt not go in to his wife; for she is thy relation. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law, for she is thy son's wife, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness. 
The nakedness of a woman and her daughter shalt thou not uncover; her son's daughter, and her daughter's daughter, shalt thou not take, to uncover their nakedness, for they are thy kinswomen: it is impiety. 
Thou shalt not take a wife in addition to her sister, as a rival, to uncover her nakedness in opposition to her, while she is yet living. 
And thou shalt not go in to a woman under separation for her uncleanness, to uncover her nakedness. 
And thou shalt not lie with thy neighbour's wife, to defile thyself with her. 
And thou shalt not give of thy seed to serve a ruler; and thou shalt not profane my holy name; I am the Lord. 
And thou shalt not lie with a man as with a woman, for it is an abomination. 
Neither shalt thou lie with any quadruped for copulation, to be polluted with it: neither shall a woman present herself before any quadruped to have connexion with it; for it is an abomination. 
Do not defile yourselves with any of these things; for in all these things the nations are defiled, which I drive out before you, 
and the land is polluted; and I have recompensed their iniquity to them because of it, and the land is aggrieved with them that dwell upon it. 
And ye shall keep all my statutes and all my ordinances, and ye shall do none of these abominations; neither the native, nor the stranger that joins himself with you: 
(for all these abominations the men of the land did who were before you, and the land was defiled,) 
and lest the land be aggrieved with you in your polluting it, as it was aggrieved with the nations before you. 
For whosoever shall do any of these abominations, the souls that do them shall be destroyed from among their people. 
And ye shall keep mine ordinances, that ye may not do any of the abominable practices, which have taken place before your time: and ye shall not be polluted in them; for I am the Lord your God. 
