Psalms.
Chapter 21.
For the end, concerning the morning aid, a Psalm of David. 
O God, my God, attend to me: why hast thou forsaken me? the account of my transgressions is far from my salvation. 
O my God, I will cry to thee by day, but thou wilt not hear: and by night, and it shall not be accounted for folly to me. 
But thou, the praise of Israel, dwellest in a sanctuary. 
Our fathers hoped in thee; they hoped, and thou didst deliver them. 
They cried to thee, and were saved: they hoped in thee, and were not ashamed. 
But I am a worm, and not a man; a reproach of men, and scorn of the people. 
All that saw me mocked me: they spoke with their lips, they shook the head, saying, 
He hoped in the Lord: let him deliver him, let him save him, because he takes pleasure in him. 
For thou art he that drew me out of the womb; my hope from my mother's breasts. 
I was cast on thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother's belly. 
Stand not aloof from me; for affliction is near; for there is no helper. 
Many bullocks have compassed me: fat bulls have beset me round. 
They have opened their mouth against me, as a ravening and roaring lion. 
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are loosened: my heart in the midst of my belly is become like melting wax. 
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue is glued to my throat; and thou hast brought me down to the dust of death. 
For many dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked doers has beset me round: they pierced my hands and my feet. 
They counted all my bones; and they observed and looked upon me. 
They parted my garments among themselves, and cast lots upon my raiment. 
But thou, O Lord, remove not my help afar off: be ready for mine aid. 
Deliver my soul from the sword; my only-begotten one from the power of the dog. 
Save me from the lion's mouth; and regard my lowliness from the horns of the unicorns. 
I will declare thy name to my brethren: in the midst of the church will I sing praise to thee. 
Ye that fear the Lord, praise him; all ye seed of Jacob, glorify him: let all the seed of Israel fear him. 
For he has not despised nor been angry at the supplication of the poor; nor turned away his face from me; but when I cried to him, he heard me. 
My praise is of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. 
The poor shall eat and be satisfied; and they shall praise the Lord that seek him: their heart shall live for ever. 
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before him. 
For the kingdom is the Lord's; and he is the governor of the nations. 
All the fat ones of the earth have eaten and worshipped: all that go down to the earth shall fall down before him: my soul also lives to him. 
And my seed shall serve him: the generation that is coming shall be reported to the Lord. 
And they shall report his righteousness to the people that shall be born, whom the Lord has made. 
