Esaias.
Chapter 54.
Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry, thou that dost not travail: for more are the children of the desolate than of her that has a husband: for the Lord has said, 
Enlarge the place of thy tent, and of thy curtains: fix the pins, spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy pins; 
spread forth thy tent yet to the right and the left: for thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and thou shalt make the desolate cities to be inhabited. 
Fear not, because thou hast been put to shame, neither be confounded, because thou wast reproached: for thou shalt forget thy former shame, and shalt no more at all remember the reproach of thy widowhood. 
For it is the Lord that made thee; the Lord of hosts is his name: and he that delivered thee, he is the God of Israel, and shall be called so by the whole earth. 
The Lord has not called thee as a deserted and faint-hearted woman, nor as a woman hated from her youth, saith thy God. 
For a little while I left thee: but with great mercy will I have compassion upon thee. 
In a little wrath I turned away my face from thee; but with everlasting mercy will I have compassion upon thee, saith the Lord that delivers thee. 
From the time of the water of Noe this is my purpose: as I sware to him at that time, saying of the earth, I will no more be wroth with thee, neither when thou art threatened, 
shall the mountains depart, nor shall thy hills be removed: so neither shall my mercy fail thee, nor shall the covenant of thy peace be at all removed: for the Lord who is gracious to thee has spoken it. 
Afflicted and outcast thou hast not been comforted: behold, I will prepare carbuncle for thy stones, and sapphire for thy foundations; 
and I will make thy buttresses jasper, and thy gates crystal, and thy border precious stones. 
And I will cause all thy sons to be taught of God, and thy children to be in great peace. 
And thou shalt be built in righteousness: abstain from injustice, and thou shalt not fear; and trembling shall not come nigh thee. 
Behold, strangers shall come to thee by me, and shall sojourn with thee, and shall run to thee for refuge. 
Behold, I have created thee, not as the coppersmith blowing coals, and bringing out a vessel fit for work; but I have created thee, not for ruin, that I should destroy thee. 
I will not suffer any weapon formed against thee to prosper; and every voice that shall rise up against thee for judgment, thou shalt vanquish them all; and thine adversaries shall be condemned thereby. There is an inheritance to them that serve the Lord, and ye shall be righteous before me, saith the Lord. 
