Job.
Chapter 37.
At this also my heart is troubled, and moved out of its place. 
Hear thou a report by the anger of the Lord's wrath, and a discourse shall come out of his mouth. 
His dominion is under the whole heaven, and his light is at the extremities of the earth. 
After him shall be a cry with a loud voice; he shall thunder with the voice of his excellency, yet he shall not cause men to pass away, for one shall hear his voice. 
The Mighty One shall thunder wonderfully with his voice: for he has done great things which we knew not; 
commanding the snow, Be thou upon the earth, and the stormy rain, and the storm of the showers of his might. 
He seals up the hand of every man, that every man may know his own weakness. 
And the wild beasts come in under the covert, and rest in their lair. 
Troubles come on out of the secret chambers, and cold from the mountain-tops. 
And from the breath of the Mighty One he will send frost; and he guides the water in whatever way he pleases. 
And if a cloud obscures what is precious to him, his light will disperse the cloud. 
And he will carry round the encircling clouds by his governance, to perform their works: whatsoever he shall command them, 
this has been appointed by him on the earth, whether for correction, or for his land, or if he shall find him an object for mercy. 
Hearken to this, O Job: stand still, and be admonished of the power of the Lord. 
We know that God has disposed his works, having made light out of darkness. 
And he knows the divisions of the clouds, and the signal overthrows of the ungodly. 
But thy robe is warm, and there is quiet upon the land. 
Wilt thou establish with him foundations for the ancient heavens? they are strong as a molten mirror. 
Wherefore teach me, what shall we say to him? and let us cease from saying much. 
Have I a book or a scribe by me, that I may stand and put man to silence? 
But the light is not visible to all: it shines afar off in the heavens, as that which is from him in the clouds. 
From the north come the clouds shining like gold: in these great are the glory and honour of the Almighty; 
and we do not find another his equal in strength: as for him that judges justly, dost thou not think that he listens? 
Wherefore men shall fear him; and the wise also in heart shall fear him. 
