Proverbs.
Chapter 7.
My son, keep my words, and hide with thee my commandments. 
My son, honour the Lord, and thou shalt be strong; and fear none but him: 
keep my commandments, and thou shalt live; and keep my words as the pupils of thine eyes. 
And bind them on thy fingers, and write them on the table of thine heart. 
Say that wisdom is thy sister, and gain prudence as an acquaintance for thyself; 
that she may keep thee from the strange and wicked woman, if she should assail thee with flattering words. 
For she looks from a window out of her house into the streets, at one whom she may see of the senseless ones, a young man void of understanding, 
passing by the corner in the passages near her house, 
and speaking, in the dark of the evening, 
when there happens to be the stillness of night and of darkness: 
and the woman meets him having the appearance of a harlot, that causes the hearts of young men to flutter. 
And she is fickle, and debauched, and her feet abide not at home. 
For at one time she wanders without, and at another time she lies in wait in the streets, at every corner. 
Then she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said to him, 
I have a peace-offering; to-day I pay my vows: 
therefore I came forth to meet thee, desiring thy face; and I have found thee. 
I have spread my bed with sheets, and I have covered it with double tapestry from Egypt. 
I have sprinkled my couch with saffron, and my house with cinnamon. 
Come, and let us enjoy love until the morning; come, and let us embrace in love. 
For my husband is not at home, but is gone on a long journey, 
having taken in his hand a bundle of money: after many days he will return to his house. 
So with much converse she prevailed on him to go astray, and with the snares of her lips she forced him from the right path. 
And he followed her, being gently led on, and that as an ox is led to the slaughter, and as a dog to bonds, or as a hart shot in the liver with an arrow: 
and he hastens as a bird into a snare, not knowing that he is running for his life. 
Now then, my son, hearken to me, and attend to the words of my mouth. 
Let not thine heart turn aside to her ways: 
for she has wounded and cast down many, and those whom she has slain are innumerable. 
Her house is the way of hell, leading down to the chambers of death. 
