Psalms.
Chapter 113.
Alleluia. At the going forth of Israel from Egypt, of the house of Jacob from a barbarous people, 
Judea became his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion. 
The sea saw and fled: Jordan was turned back. 
The mountains skipped like rams, and the hills like lambs. 
What ailed thee, O sea, that thou fleddest? and thou Jordan, that thou wast turned back? 
Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams, and ye hills, like lambs? 
The earth trembled at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob; 
who turned the rock into pools of water, and the flint into fountains of water. 
Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to thy name give glory, because of thy mercy and thy truth; 
lest at any time the nations should say, Where is their God? 
But our God has done in heaven and on earth, whatsoever he has pleased. 
The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of men's hands. 
They have a mouth, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see: 
they have ears, but they cannot hear; they have noses, but they cannot smell; 
they have hands, but they cannot handle; they have feet, but they cannot walk: they cannot speak through their throat. 
Let those that make them become like to them, and all who trust in them. 
The house of Israel trusts in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. 
The house of Aaron trusts in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. 
They that fear the Lord trust in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. 
The Lord has remembered us, and blessed us: he has blessed the house of Israel, he has blessed the house of Aaron. 
He has blessed them that fear the Lord, both small and great. 
The Lord add blessings to you and to your children. 
Blessed are ye of the Lord, who made the heaven and the earth. 
The heaven of heavens belongs to the Lord: but he has given the earth to the sons of men. 
The dead shall not praise thee, O Lord, nor any that go down to Hades. 
But we, the living, will bless the Lord, from henceforth and for ever. 
