Proverbs.
Chapter 9.
Wisdom has built a house for herself, and set up seven pillars. 
She has killed her beasts; she has mingled her wine in a bowl, and prepared her table. 
She has sent forth her servants, calling with a loud proclamation to the feast, saying, 
Whoso is foolish, let him turn aside to me: and to them that want understanding she says, 
Come, eat of my bread, and drink wine which I have mingled for you. 
Leave folly, that ye may reign for ever; and seek wisdom, and improve understanding by knowledge. 
He that reproves evil men shall get dishonour to himself; and he that rebukes an ungodly man shall disgrace himself. 
Rebuke not evil men, lest they should hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee. 
Give an opportunity to a wise man, and he will be wiser: instruct a just man, and he will receive more instruction. 
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the counsel of saints is understanding: 
for to know the law is the character of a sound mind. 
For in this way thou shalt live long, and years of thy life shall be added to thee. 
Son, if thou be wise for thyself, thou shalt also be wise for thy neighbours; and if thou shouldest prove wicked, thou alone wilt bear the evil. 
He that stays himself upon falsehoods, attempts to rule the winds, and the same will pursue birds in their flight: 
for he has forsaken the ways of his own vineyard, and he has caused the axles of his own husbandry to go astray; 
and he goes through a dry desert, and a land appointed to drought, and he gathers barrenness with his hands. 
A foolish and bold woman, who knows not modesty, comes to want a morsel. 
She sits at the doors of her house, on a seat openly in the streets, 
calling to passers by, and to those that are going right on their ways; 
saying, Whoso is most senseless of you, let him turn aside to me; and I exhort those that want prudence, saying, 
Take and enjoy secret bread, and the sweet water of theft. 
But he knows that mighty men die by her, and he falls in with a snare of hell. 
But hasten away, delay not in the place, neither fix thine eye upon her: 
for thus shalt thou go through strange water; 
but do thou abstain from strange water, and drink not of a strange fountain, 
that thou mayest live long, and years of life may be added to thee. 
