Job.
Chapter 22.
Then Eliphaz the Thæmanite answered and said, 
Is it not the Lord that teaches understanding and knowledge? 
For what matters it to the Lord, if thou wert blameless in thy works? or is it profitable that thou shouldest perfect thy way? 
Wilt thou maintain and plead thine own cause? and will he enter into judgment with thee? 
Is not thy wickedness abundant, and thy sins innumerable? 
And thou hast taken security of thy brethren for nothing, and hast taken away the clothing of the naked. 
Neither hast thou given water to the thirsty to drink, but hast taken away the morsel of the hungry. 
And thou hast accepted the persons of some; and thou hast established those that were already settled on the earth. 
But thou hast sent widows away empty, and hast afflicted orphans. 
Therefore snares have compassed thee, and disastrous war has troubled thee. 
The light has proved darkness to thee, and water has covered thee on thy lying down. 
Does not he that dwells in the high places observe? and has he not brought down the proud? 
And thou hast said, What does the Mighty One know? does he judge in the dark? 
A cloud is his hiding-place, and he shall not be seen; and he passes through the circle of heaven. 
Wilt thou not mark the old way, which righteous men have trodden? 
who were seized before their time: their foundations are as an overflowing stream. 
Who say, What will the Lord do to us? or what will the Almighty bring upon us? 
Yet he filled their houses with good things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from him. 
The righteous have seen it, and laughed, and the blameless one has derided them. 
Verily their substance has been utterly destroyed, and the fire shall devour what is left of their property. 
Be firm, I pray thee, if thou canst endure; then thy fruit shall prosper. 
And receive a declaration from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart. 
And if thou shalt turn and humble thyself before the Lord, thou hast thus removed unrighteousness far from thy habitation. 
Thou shalt lay up for thyself treasure in a heap on the rock; and Sophir shall be as the rock of the torrent. 
So the Almighty shall be thy helper from enemies, and he shall bring thee forth pure as silver that has been tried by fire. 
Then shalt thou have boldness before the Lord, looking up cheerfully to heaven. 
And he shall hear thee when thou prayest to him, and he shall grant thee power to pay thy vows. 
And he shall establish to thee again a habitation of righteousness and there shall be light upon thy paths. 
Because thou hast humbled thyself; and thou shalt say, Man has behaved proudly, but he shall save him that is of lowly eyes. 
He shall deliver the innocent, and do thou save thyself by thy pure hands. 
