Proverbs.
Chapter 4.
Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding. 
For I give you a good gift; forsake ye not my law. 
For I also was a son obedient to my father, and loved in the sight of my mother: 
who spoke and instructed me, saying, Let our speech be fixed in thine heart, keep our commandments, forget them not: 
and do not neglect the speech of my mouth. 
And forsake it not, and it shall cleave to thee: love it, and it shall keep thee. 
Secure it, and it shall exalt thee: honour it, that it may embrace thee; 
that it may give unto thy head a crown of graces, and may cover thee with a crown of delight. 
Hear, my son, and receive my words; and the years of thy life shall be increased, that the resources of thy life may be many. 
For I teach thee the ways of wisdom; and I cause thee to go in right paths. 
For when thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not be distressed. 
Take hold of my instruction; let it not go,—but keep it for thyself for thy life. 
Go not in the ways of the ungodly, neither covet the ways of transgressors. 
In whatever place they shall pitch their camp, go not thither; but turn from them, and pass away. 
For they cannot sleep, unless they have done evil: their sleep is taken away, and they rest not. 
For these live upon the bread of ungodliness, and are drunken with wine of transgression. 
But the ways of the righteous shine like light; they go on and shine, until the day be fully come. 
But the ways of the ungodly are dark; they know not how they stumble. 
My son, attend to my speech; and apply thine ear to my words: 
that thy fountains may not fail thee; keep them in thine heart. 
For they are life to those that find them, and health to all their flesh. 
Keep thine heart with the utmost care; for out of these are the issues of life. 
Remove from thee a froward mouth, and put far away from thee unjust lips. 
Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids assent to just things. 
Make straight paths for thy feet, and order thy ways aright. 
Turn not aside to the right hand nor to the left, but turn away thy foot from an evil way: 
for God knows the ways on the right hand, but those on the left are crooked: 
and he will make thy ways straight, and will guide thy steps in peace. 
