Exodus.
Chapter 25.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the children of Israel, and take first-fruits of all, who may be disposed in their heart to give; and ye shall take my first-fruits. 
And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold and silver and brass, 
and blue, and purple, and double scarlet, and fine spun linen, and goats' hair, 
and rams' skins dyed red, and blue skins, and incorruptible wood, 
and oil for the light, incense for anointing oil, and for the composition of incense, 
and sardius stones, and stones for the carved work of the breast-plate, and the full-length robe. 
And thou shalt make me a sanctuary, and I will appear among you. 
And thou shalt make for me according to all things which I shew thee in the mountain; even the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all its furniture: so shalt thou make it. 
And thou shalt make the ark of testimony of incorruptible wood; the length of two cubits and a half, and the breadth of a cubit and a half, and the height of a cubit and a half. 
And thou shalt gild it with pure gold, thou shalt gild it within and without; and thou shalt make for it golden wreaths twisted round about. 
And thou shalt cast for it four golden rings, and shalt put them on the four sides; two rings on the one side, and two rings on the other side. 
And thou shalt make staves of incorruptible wood, and shalt gild them with gold. 
And thou shalt put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark with them. 
The staves shall remain fixed in the rings of the ark. 
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimonies which I shall give thee. 
And thou shalt make a propitiatory, a lid of pure gold; the length of two cubits and a half, and the breadth of a cubit and a half. 
And thou shalt make two cherubs graven in gold, and thou shalt put them on both sides of the propitiatory. 
They shall be made, one cherub on this side, and another cherub on the other side of the propitiatory; and thou shalt make the two cherubs on the two sides. 
The cherubs shall stretch forth their wings above, overshadowing the propitiatory with their wings; and their faces shall be toward each other, the faces of the cherubs shall be toward the propitiatory. 
And thou shalt set the propitiatory on the ark above, and thou shalt put into the ark the testimonies which I shall give thee. 
And I will make myself known to thee from thence, and I will speak to thee above the propitiatory between the two cherubs, which are upon the ark of testimony, even in all things which I shall charge thee concerning the children of Israel. 
And thou shalt make a golden table of pure gold, in length two cubits, and in breadth a cubit, and in height a cubit and a half. 
And thou shalt make for it golden wreaths twisted round about, and thou shalt make for it a crown of an hand-breadth round about. 
And thou shalt make a twisted wreath for the crown round about. 
And thou shalt make four golden rings; and thou shalt put the four rings upon the four parts of its feet under the crown. 
And the rings shall be for bearings for the staves, that they may bear the table with them. 
And thou shalt make the staves of incorruptible wood, and thou shalt gild them with pure gold; and the table shall be borne with them. 
And thou shalt make its dishes and its censers, and its bowls, and its cups, with which thou shalt offer drink-offerings: of pure gold shalt thou make them. 
And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me continually. 
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold; thou shalt make the candlestick of graven work: its stem and its branches, and its bowls and its knops and its lilies shall be of one piece. 
And six branches proceeding sideways, three branches of the candlestick from one side of it, and three branches of the candlestick from the other side. 
And three bowls fashioned like almonds, on each branch a knop and a lily; so to the six branches proceeding from the candlestick, 
and in the candlestick four bowls fashioned like almonds, in each branch knops and the flowers of the same. 
A knop under two branches out of it, and a knop under four branches out of it; so to the six branches proceeding from the candlestick; and in the candlestick four bowls fashioned like almonds. 
Let the knops and the branches be of one piece, altogether graven of one piece of pure gold. 
And thou shalt make its seven lamps: and thou shalt set on it the lamps, and they shall shine from one front. 
And thou shalt make its funnel and its snuff-dishes of pure gold. 
All these articles shall be a talent of pure gold. 
See, thou shalt make them according to the pattern shewed thee in the mount. 
