Jeremias.
Chapter 32.
Thus said the Lord God of Israel; Take the cup of this unmixed wine from mine hand, and thou shalt cause all the nations to drink, to whom I send thee. 
And they shall drink, and vomit, and be mad, because of the sword which I send among them. 
So I took the cup out of the Lord's hand, and caused the nations to whom the Lord sent me to drink: 
Jerusalem, and the cities of Juda, and the kings of Juda, and his princes, to make them a desert place, a desolation, and a hissing; 
and Pharao king of Egypt, and his servants, and his nobles, and all his people; 
and all the mingled people, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ascalon, and Gaza, and Accaron, and the remnant of Azotus, 
and Idumea, and the land of Moab, and the children of Ammon, 
and the kings of Tyre, and the kings of Sidon, and the kings in the country beyond the sea, 
and Dædan, and Thæman, and Ros, and every one that is shaved round about the face, 
and all the mingled people lodging in the wilderness, 
and all the kings of Ælam, and all the kings of the Persians, 
and all the kings from the north, the far and the near, each one with his brother, and all the kingdoms which are on the face of the earth. 
And thou shalt say to them, Thus said the Lord Almighty; Drink ye, be ye drunken; and ye shall vomit, and shall fall, and shall in nowise rise, because of the sword which I send among you. 
And it shall come to pass, when they refuse to take the cup out of thine hand, to drink it, that thou shalt say, Thus said the Lord; Ye shall surely drink. 
For I am beginning to afflict the city whereon my name is called, and ye shall by no means be held guiltless: for I am calling a sword upon all that dwell upon the earth. 
And thou shalt prophesy against them these words, and shalt say, The Lord shall speak from on high, from his sanctuary he will utter his voice; he will pronounce a declaration on his place; and these shall answer like men gathering grapes: and destruction is coming on them that dwell on the earth, 
even upon the extreme part of the earth; for the Lord has a controversy with the nations, he is pleading with all flesh, and the ungodly are given to the sword, saith the Lord. 
Thus said the Lord; Behold, evils are proceeding from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind goes forth from the end of the earth. 
And the slain of the Lord shall be in the day of the Lord from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth: they shall not be buried; they shall be as dung on the face of the earth. 
Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and lament, ye rams of the flock: for your days have been completed for slaughter, and ye shall fall as the choice rams. 
And flight shall perish from the shepherds, and safety from the rams of the flock. 
A voice of the crying of the shepherds, and a moaning of the sheep and the rams: for the Lord has destroyed their pastures. 
And the peaceable abodes that remain shall be destroyed before the fierceness of my anger. 
He has forsaken his lair, as a lion: for their land is become desolate before the great sword. 
