Exodus.
Chapter 20.
And the Lord spoke all these words, saying: 
I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
Thou shalt have no other gods beside me. 
Thou shalt not make to thyself an idol, nor likeness of anything, whatever things are in the heaven above, and whatever are in the earth beneath, and whatever are in the waters under the earth. 
Thou shalt not bow down to them, nor serve them; for I am the Lord thy God, a jealous God, recompensing the sins of the fathers upon the children, to the third and fourth generation to them that hate me, 
and bestowing mercy on them that love me to thousands of them, and on them that keep my commandments. 
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord thy God will not acquit him that takes his name in vain. 
Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy. 
Six days thou shalt labour, and shalt perform all thy work. 
But on the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God; on it thou shalt do no work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy servant nor thy maidservant, thine ox nor thine ass, nor any cattle of thine, nor the stranger that sojourns with thee. 
For in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth, and the sea and all things in them, and rested on the seventh day; therefore the Lord blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it. 
Honour thy father and thy mother, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the good land, which the Lord thy God gives to thee. 
Thou shalt not commit adultery. 
Thou shalt not steal. 
Thou shalt not kill. 
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. 
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife; thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house; nor his field, nor his servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any of his cattle, nor whatever belongs to thy neighbour. 
And all the people perceived the thundering, and the flashes, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking; and all the people feared and stood afar off, 
and said to Moses, Speak thou to us, and let not God speak to us, lest we die. 
And Moses says to them, Be of good courage, for God is come to you to try you, that his fear may be among you, that ye sin not. 
And the people stood afar off, and Moses went into the darkness where God was. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and thou shalt report it to the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven. 
Ye shall not make to yourselves gods of silver, and gods of gold ye shall not make to yourselves. 
Ye shall make to me an altar of earth; and upon it ye shall sacrifice your whole burnt-offerings, and your peace-offerings, and your sheep and your calves in every place, where I shall record my name; and I will come to thee and bless thee. 
And if thou wilt make to me an altar of stones, thou shalt not build them hewn stones; for thou hast lifted up thy tool upon them, and they are defiled. 
Thou shalt not go up to my altar by steps, that thou mayest not uncover thy nakedness upon it. 
