Psalms.
Chapter 44.
For the end, for alternate strains by the sons of Core; for instruction, a Song concerning the beloved. 
My heart has uttered a good matter: I declare my works to the king: my tongue is the pen of a quick writer. 
Thou art more beautiful than the sons of men: grace has been shed forth on thy lips: therefore God has blessed thee for ever. 
Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O Mighty One, in thy comeliness, and in thy beauty; 
and bend thy bow, and prosper, and reign, because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall guide thee wonderfully. 
Thy weapons are sharpened, Mighty One, (the nations shall fall under thee) they are in the heart of the king's enemies. 
Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a sceptre of righteousness. 
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, has anointed thee with the oil of gladness beyond thy fellows. 
Myrrh, and stacte, and cassia are exhaled from thy garments, and out of the ivory palaces, 
with which kings' daughters have gladdened thee for thine honour: the queen stood by on thy right hand, clothed in vesture wrought with gold, and arrayed in divers colours. 
Hear, O daughter, and see, and incline thine ear; forget also thy people, and thy father's house. 
Because the king has desired thy beauty; for he is thy Lord. 
And the daughter of Tyre shall adore him with gifts; the rich of the people of the land shall supplicate thy favour. 
All her glory is that of the daughter of the king of Esebon, robed as she is in golden fringed garments, 
in embroidered clothing: virgins shall be brought to the king after her: her fellows shall be brought to thee. 
They shall be brought with gladness and exultation: they shall be led into the king's temple. 
Instead of thy fathers children are born to thee: thou shalt make them princes over all the earth. 
They shall make mention of thy name from generation to generation: therefore shall the nations give thanks to thee for ever, even for ever and ever. 
