Esaias.
Chapter 43.
And now thus saith the Lord God that made thee, O Jacob, and formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. 
And if thou pass through water, I am with thee; and the rivers shall not overflow thee: and if thou go through fire, thou shalt not be burned; the flame shall not burn thee. 
For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, that saves thee: I have made Egypt and Ethiopia thy ransom, and given Soene for thee. 
Since thou becamest precious in my sight, thou hast become glorious, and I have loved thee: and I will give men for thee, and princes for thy life. 
Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and will gather thee from the west. 
I will say to the north, Bring; and to the south, Keep not back; bring my sons from the land afar off, and my daughters from the ends of the earth; 
even all who are called by my name: for I have prepared him for my glory, and I have formed him, and have made him: 
and I have brought forth the blind people; for their eyes are alike blind, and they that have ears are deaf. 
All the nations are gathered together, and princes shall be gathered out of them: who will declare these things? or who will declare to you things from the beginning? let them bring forth their witnesses, and be justified; and let them hear, and declare the truth. 
Be ye my witnesses, and I too am a witness, saith the Lord God, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know, and believe, and understand that I am he: before me there was no other God, and after me there shall be none. 
I am God; and beside me there is no Saviour. 
I have declared, and have saved; I have reproached, and there was no strange god among you: ye are my witnesses, and I am the Lord God, 
even from the beginning; and there is none that can deliver out of my hands: I will work, and who shall turn it back? 
Thus saith the Lord God that redeems you, the Holy One of Israel; For your sakes I will send to Babylon, and I will stir up all that flee, and the Chaldeans shall be bound in ships. 
I am the Lord God, your Holy One, who have appointed for Israel your king. 
Thus saith the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty water; 
who brought forth chariots and horse, and a mighty multitude: but they have lain down, and shall not rise: they are extinct, as quenched flax. 
Remember ye not the former things, and consider not the ancient things. 
Behold, I will do new things, which shall presently spring forth, and ye shall know them: and I will make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the dry land. 
The beasts of the field shall bless me, the owls and young ostriches; for I have given water in the wilderness, and rivers in the dry land, to give drink to my chosen race, 
even my people whom I have preserved to tell forth my praises. 
I have not now called thee, O Jacob; neither have I made thee weary, O Israel. 
Thou hast not brought me the sheep of thy whole-burnt-offering; neither hast thou glorified me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to serve with sacrifices, neither have I wearied thee with frankincense. 
Neither hast thou purchased for me victims for silver, neither have I desired the fat of thy sacrifices: but thou didst stand before me in thy sins, and in thine iniquities. 
I, even I, am he that blots out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and thy sins; and I will not remember them. 
But do thou remember, and let us plead together: do thou first confess thy transgressions, that thou mayest be justified. 
Your fathers first, and your princes have transgressed against me. 
And the princes have defiled my sanctuaries: so I gave Jacob to enemies to destroy, and Israel to reproach. 
