Jezekiel.
Chapter 32.
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharao king of Egypt, and say to him, Thou art become like a lion of the nations, and as the serpent that is in the sea: and thou didst make assaults with thy rivers, and didst disturb the water with thy feet, and didst trample thy rivers. 
Thus saith the Lord; I will also cast over thee the nets of many nations, and will bring thee up with my hook: 
and I will stretch thee upon the earth: the fields shall be covered with thee, and I will cause all the birds of the sky to settle upon thee, and I will fill with thee all the wild beasts of the earth. 
And I will cast thy flesh upon the mountains, and will saturate them with thy blood. 
And the land shall be drenched with thy dung, because of thy multitude upon the mountains: I will fill the valleys with thee. 
And I will veil the heavens when thou art extinguished, and will darken the stars thereof; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light. 
All the bodies that give light in the sky, shall be darkened over thee, and I will bring darkness upon the earth, saith the Lord God. 
And I will provoke to anger the heart of many people, when I shall lead thee captive among the nations, to a land which thou hast not known. 
And many nations shall mourn over thee, and their kings shall be utterly amazed, when my sword flies in their faces, as they wait for their own fall from the day of thy fall. 
For thus saith the Lord God; The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon thee, 
with the swords of mighty men; and I will cast down thy strength: they are all destroying ones from the nations, and they shall destroy the pride of Egypt, and all her strength shall be crushed. 
And I will destroy all her cattle from beside the great water; and the foot of man shall not trouble it any more, and the step of cattle shall no more trample it. 
Thus shall their waters then be at rest, and their rivers shall flow like oil, saith the Lord, 
when I shall give up Egypt to destruction, and the land shall be made desolate with the fulness thereof; when I shall scatter all that dwell in it, and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
There is a lamentation, and thou shalt utter it; and the daughters of the nations shall utter it, even for Egypt, and they shall mourn for it over all the strength thereof, saith the Lord God. 
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, lament over the strength of Egypt, for the nations shall bring down her daughters dead to the depth of the earth, to them that go down to the pit. 
They shall fall with him in the midst of them that are slain with the sword, and all his strength shall perish: the giants also shall say to thee, 
Be thou in the depth of the pit: to whom art thou superior? yea, go down, and lie with the uncircumcised, in the midst of them that are slain with the sword. 
There are Assur and all his company: all his slain have been laid there: 
and their burial is in the depth of the pit, and his company are set round about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, who had caused the fear of them to be upon the land of the living. 
There is Ælam and all his host round about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, and the uncircumcised that go down to the deep of the earth, who caused their fear to be upon the land of the living: and they have received their punishment with them that go down to the pit, 
in the midst of the slain. 
There were laid Mosoch, and Thobel, and all his strength round about his tomb: all his slain men, all the uncircumcised, slain with the sword, who caused their fear to be in the land of the living. 
And they are laid with the giants that fell of old, who went down to Hades with their weapons of war: and they laid their swords under their heads, but their iniquities were upon their bones, because they terrified all men during their life. 
And thou shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with them that have been slain by the sword. 
There are laid the princes of Assur, who yielded their strength to a wound of the sword: these are laid with the slain, with them that go down to the pit. 
There are the princes of the north, even all the captains of Assur, who go down slain to Hades: they lie uncircumcised among the slain with the sword together with their terror and their strength, and they have received their punishment with them that go down to the pit. 
King Pharao shall see them, and shall be comforted over all their force, saith the Lord God. 
For I have caused his fear to be upon the land of the living: yet he shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are slain with the sword, even Pharao, and all his multitude with him, saith the Lord God. 
