Sirach.
Chapter 30.
He that loveth his son causeth him oft to feel the rod, that he may have joy of him in the end. 
He that chastiseth his son shall have joy in him, and shall rejoice of him among his acquaintance. 
He that teacheth his son grieveth the enemy: and before his friends he shall rejoice of him. 
Though his father die, yet he is as though he were not dead: for he hath left one behind him that is like himself. 
While he lived, he saw and rejoiced in him: and when he died, he was not sorrowful. 
He left behind him an avenger against his enemies, and one that shall requite kindness to his friends. 
He that maketh too much of his son shall bind up his wounds; and his bowels will be troubled at every cry. 
An horse not broken becometh headstrong: and a child left to himself will be wilful. 
Cocker thy child, and he shall make thee afraid: play with him, and he will bring thee to heaviness. 
Laugh not with him, lest thou have sorrow with him, and lest thou gnash thy teeth in the end. 
Give him not liberty in youth. 
Beat his sides while he is still young, lest becoming stubborn, he disobey thee. 
Train up thy son, and exercise him with work, lest by thy looseness thou stumble. 
And overlook not his ignorance. 
Bow down his neck in his youth. 
Better is the poor, being sound and strong of constitution, than a rich man that is afflicted in his body. 
Health and good estate of body are above all gold, and a strong body above infinite wealth. 
There is no riches above a sound body, and no joy above the joy of the heart. 
Death is better than a bitter life or continual sickness. 
Delicacies poured upon a mouth shut up are as messes of meat set upon a grave. 
What good doeth the offering unto an idol? for neither can it eat nor smell: so is he that is persecuted of the Lord. 
He seeth with his eyes and groaneth, as an eunuch that embraceth a virgin and sigheth. 
Give not over thy mind to heaviness, and afflict not thyself in thine own counsel. 
The gladness of the heart is the life of man, and the joyfulness of a man prolongeth his days. 
Love thine own soul, and comfort thy heart, remove sorrow far from thee: for sorrow hath killed many, and there is no profit therein. 
Envy and wrath shorten the life, and carefulness bringeth age before the time. 
I awaked up last of all, as one that gathereth after the grape-gatherers: by the blessing of the Lord I profited, 
and filled my winepress like a gatherer of grapes. Consider that I laboured not for myself only, but for all them that seek learning. 
Hear me, O ye great men of the people, and hearken with your ears, ye rulers of the congregation. 
Give not thy son and wife, thy brother and friend, power over thee while thou livest, and give not thy goods to another, lest it repent thee, and thou intreat for the same again. 
As long as thou livest and hast breath in thee, give not thyself over to any. 
For better it is that thy children should seek to thee, than that thou shouldest stand to their courtesy. 
In all thy works keep to thyself the preeminence; leave not a stain in thine honour. 
At the time when thou shalt end thy days, and finish thy life, distribute thine inheritance. 
Fodder, a stick, and burdens, are for the ass; and bread, correction, and work, for a servant. 
If thou set thy servant to labour, thou shalt find rest: but if thou let him go idle, he will seek liberty. 
A yoke and a collar do bow the neck: so are tortures and torments for an evil servant. 
Send him to labour, that he be not idle; for idleness teacheth much evil. 
Set him to work, as is fit for him: if he be not obedient, put on more heavy fetters. 
But be not excessive toward any; and without discretion do nothing. 
If thou have a servant, let him be unto thee as thyself, because thou hast bought him with a price. 
If thou have a servant, entreat him as a brother: for thou hast need of him, as of thine own soul: if thou entreat him evil, and he run from thee, which way wilt thou go to seek him? 
