Psalms.
Chapter 72.
A Psalm for Asaph. How good is God to Israel, to the upright in heart! 
But my feet were almost overthrown; my goings very nearly slipped. 
For I was jealous of the transgressors, beholding the tranquillity of sinners. 
For there is no sign of reluctance in their death: and they have firmness under their affliction. 
They are not in the troubles of other men; and they shall not be scourged with other men. 
Therefore pride has possessed them; they have clothed themselves with their injustice and ungodliness. 
Their injustice shall go forth as out of fatness: they have fulfilled their intention. 
They have taken counsel and spoken in wickedness: they have uttered unrighteousness loftily. 
They have set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue has gone through upon the earth. 
Therefore shall my people return hither: and full days shall be found with them. 
And they said, How does God know? and is there knowledge in the Most High? 
Behold, these are the sinners, and they that prosper always: they have possessed wealth. 
And I said, Verily in vain have I justified my heart, and washed my hands in innocency. 
For I was plagued all the day, and my reproof was every morning. 
If I said, I will speak thus; behold, I should have broken covenant with the generation of thy children. 
And I undertook to understand this, but it is too hard for me, 
until I go into the sanctuary of God; and so understand the latter end. 
Surely thou hast appointed judgments to them because of their crafty dealings: thou hast cast them down when they were lifted up. 
How have they become desolate! suddenly they have failed: they have perished because of their iniquity. 
As the dream of one awakening, O Lord, in thy city thou wilt despise their image. 
For my heart has rejoiced, and my reins have been gladdened. 
But I was vile and knew not: I became brutish before thee. 
Yet I am continually with thee: thou hast holden my right hand. 
Thou hast guided me by thy counsel, and thou hast taken me to thyself with glory. 
For what have I in heaven but thee? and what have I desired upon the earth beside thee? 
My heart and my flesh have failed: but God is the strength of my heart, and God is my portion for ever. 
For, behold, they that remove themselves far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed every one that goes a whoring from thee. 
But it is good for me to cleave close to God, to put my trust in the Lord; that I may proclaim all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion. 
