Psalms.
Chapter 30.
For the end, a Psalm of David, an utterance of extreme fear. 
O Lord, I have hoped in thee; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness and rescue me. 
Incline thine ear to me; make haste to rescue me: be thou to me for a protecting God, and for a house of refuge to save me. 
For thou art my strength and my refuge; and thou shalt guide me for thy name's sake, and maintain me. 
Thou shalt bring me out of the snare which they have hidden for me; for thou, O Lord, art my defender. 
Into thine hands I will commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. 
Thou hast hated them that idly persist in vanities: but I have hoped in the Lord. 
I will exult and be glad in thy mercy: for thou hast looked upon mine affliction; thou hast saved my soul from distresses. 
And thou hast not shut me up into the hands of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a wide place. 
Pity me, O Lord, for I am afflicted: my eye is troubled with indignation, my soul and my belly. 
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with groanings: my strength has been weakened through poverty, and my bones are troubled. 
I became a reproach among all mine enemies, but exceedingly so to my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that saw me without fled from me. 
I have been forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am become as a broken vessel. 
For I heard the slander of many that dwelt round about: when they were gathered together against me, they took counsel to take my life. 
But I hoped in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God. 
My lots are in thy hands: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, 
and from them that persecute me. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me in thy mercy. 
O Lord, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon thee: let the ungodly be ashamed, and brought down to Hades. 
Let the deceitful lips become dumb, which speak iniquity against the righteous with pride and scorn. 
How abundant is the multitude of thy goodness, O Lord, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee! thou hast wrought it out for them that hope on thee, in the presence of the sons of men. 
Thou wilt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the vexation of man: thou wilt screen them in a tabernacle from the contradiction of tongues. 
Blessed be the Lord: for he has magnified his mercy in a fortified city. 
But I said in my extreme fear, I am cast out from the sight of thine eyes: therefore thou didst hearken, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication when I cried to thee. 
Love the Lord, all ye his saints: for the Lord seeks for truth, and renders a reward to them that deal very proudly. 
Be of good courage, and let your heart be strengthened, all ye that hope in the Lord. 
